**pyhound** is a command line client for the `Hound`_ source code search
engine. It connects to a Hound server.

.. _Hound: https://github.com/etsy/Hound


Requirements
============

**pyhound** requires Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.3 or 3.4.


Installation
============

**pyhound** needs a Hound server. See Hound documentation for further
details. The steps below assume that you have a Hound server listening
(for example on ``http://localhost:6080``).

To install **pyhound**, use ``pip``:

    pip install pyhound


Features
========

**pyhound** aims to output search results in the manner of ``grep``
and hence implements some (but definitely not all) of its options.

The main feature of **pyhound** is its ``--help`` argument::

    usage: pyhound [-h] [--version] [--endpoint URL] [--repos REPOSITORY_LIST]
                   [--exclude-repos REPOSITORY_LIST] [--path FILE_PATH_PATTERN]
                   [-A NUM] [-B NUM] [-C NUM] [--color [WHEN]] [-i] [-n]
                   PATTERN
    
    A command-line client for Hound.
    
    positional arguments:
      PATTERN               The regular expression to search.
    
    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --version             show program's version number and exit
      --endpoint URL        Host and port of the Hound server. You may also set a
                            HOUND_ENDPOINT environment variable. Default:
                            http://localhost:6080/
      --repos REPOSITORY_LIST
                            A comma-separated list of repositories to search in.
                            Default: all.
      --exclude-repos REPOSITORY_LIST
                            A comma-separated list of repositories to exclude.
      --path FILE_PATH_PATTERN
                            A pattern to match against the path of candidate
                            files.
      -A NUM, --after-context NUM
                            Print NUM lines of trailing context after matching
                            lines. Cannot be used with -C.
      -B NUM, --before-context NUM
                            Print NUM lines of leading context before matching
                            lines. Cannot be used with -C.
      -C NUM, --context NUM
                            Print NUM lines of output context. Cannot be used with
                            -A or -B.
      --color [WHEN], --colour [WHEN]
                            Surround the matched (non-empty) strings, file names,
                            line numbers and separators (for fields and groups of
                            context lines) with escape sequences to display them
                            in color on the terminal. WHEN may be "never",
                            "always" or "auto".
      -i, --ignore-case     Ignore case distinctions in both the PATTERN and the
                            input files.
      -n, --line-number     Prefix each line of output with the 1-based line
                            number within its input file.


Status
======

**pyhound** is considered beta. It's only a few lines long and seems
to work. However, it's still very new and has not seen much diverse
usage yet.

One of the current limitations is that **pyhound** currently tries to
retrieve all search results in a single request to the Hound server.
The server may return an error if there are too many results
(currently: more than 5000) and **pyhound** will kindly display it. A
future version of **pyhound** should handle this case and make
multiple requests to the Hound server. Note that Hound web user
interface has the same limitation and fails in a similar way (although
it at least shows the first 20 results).


Alternatives
============

Apart from the web user interface, Hound comes with a command-line
client. However it currently (Feb. 2015) has several limitations:

- it does not provide a ``grep``-like output (although a TODO comment
  in the source suggests that it may appear someday);
- if there are more results that the Hound server can return in a
  single query, the command-line client displays nothing (as if there
  was no match at all).


The name
========

I must apologize. It's the first time I write a Python package that
starts with "py". I thought I could resist a few years more. How naive
of me...


Credits, contributions and license
==================================

Well, first things first: thanks to the developers of Hound. :)

**pyhound** is maintained by developpers at `Polyconseil`_. It is
hosted on GitHub at https://github.com/polyconseil/pyhound/.
Suggestions and patches are welcome.

**pyhound** is licensed under the 3-clause BSD license, a copy of
which is included in the source.

.. _Polyconseil: http://www.polyconseil.fr
